Repeat of T1 Mitochondrial Sequencing and Assembly
All of the sequencing was done already, the reads are collected.  My only task here was assembly and analysis.
1.	Use MAQ to assemble the reads.  For use in MAQ, convert files from fasta (normal genetic formatting for base sequences) and fastq (formatting for short base sequences?) to bfa and bfq (binary fasta and fastq).  MAQ has functions that let you do this easily.
2.	Run the series of functions outlined in the maq-cheatsheet.  For information on parameter input, look at the online maq manual in the maq information page.  Have a directory where all the information is put and pay attention to what you name things.
3.	Next, use velvet to assemble the reads.  First run velveth which is a helper program for velvetg.  For parameter placement in velveth, see the info page.  Next, simply run velvetg giving velvetg the output from velveth as input.
4.	Now that this data is collected, put the contigs.fa file from velvet, the reference genome, and the short reads that Rosenthal et al. collected into Sequencher.  Align all of these to a reference genome, using the reference genome as the reference genome…
5.	For analysis, adjust the above step as necessary.  For one analysis, I trimmed the aligned contigs and reference genome to the length of Rosenthal et al.’s reads and examined that length.  For another analysis, I used only the reference and the aligned contigs.
6.	In the first, trim everything so that it is the length of Rosenthal et al.’s reads.  Export this contig.  Use MEGA to convert the .txt file into a fast file (.meg for MEGA) and put them into MEGA.  Use the reference genome on NCBI and an online tool called ExPasy to find the correct reading frame for the data.  If a reverse complement is needed, go back to Sequencher, reverse complement in the main menu, and re-export.  Once the reading frame is determined, manually set the reading frames in MEGA and perform analyses as you see fit using the tools in MEGA.
7.	In the second analysis, use only the contigs and the reference.  Trim so that all contigs concatenate (i.e. no overlap) and trim the overall length to that of the contigs.  Repeat above steps.
